BeanCounter User Guide

Table of Contents
I .............. Initial Setup
II ............. Main Menu
III ............ Accounts
IV ............. Default Accounts
?? ............. Geneal Ledger
?? ............. Account Detail
?? ............. Financial Statements
?? ............. Settings
?? ............. Import/Export Files


I - Initial Setup
At the program's first boot, the user is asked to fill out information about their business. This includes the business name, 
starting month and year of incorporation. The user can also choose the software operation mode between multiple users or a
single user. Selecting single user will bypass asking sign-on credentials each time the software begins.


II - Main Menu
There are four options available to the user from the main menu. 

General Ledger: allows user(s) to create journal entries and view existing entries saved in Ledger.dat.

Account Detail: allows user(s) to view all posted journal entries to the ledger and the impact to one or many accounts. This includes 
balances within a specified user date range.

Financial Statements: allows user(s) to generate forms based on various financial statements. This includes the income statement, 
the balance sheet, and the statement of retained earnings. These can have their dates range from monthly, quarterly, and yearly.

Settings: allows user(s) with the appropriate permissions to modify program settings such as business details, accounts, and
importing/exporting existing compatible data.


III - Accounts
The program's functions are dependent on accounts that are pre-defined during program boot. Upon successful boot, the user can create
custom accounts that may better suit the needs of their business. There are some important requirements creating custom accounts.

Account Codes: All accounts must match a starting code based on their type. These include:
10xx - Assets
20xx - Liabilities
30xx - Fixed Assets
40xx - Accumulated Depreciation / Amortization
50xx - Shareholders Equity
60xx - Revenue
70xx - Expenses
80xx - Depreciation / Amortization Expense

Account Name: The specified account name. These are visible on statements and account detail forms.

Current Status: If the entered account specifies as allowing current amount(s), this must be enabled. Current amounts refers to
a material balance that is generated within a fiscal year.

Contra Account Code: If the entered account acts as a contra-account, the account code of the non-contra account must be entered.
For example, an accumulated depreciation account added would be a contra-account to an existing fixed asset account.

Accounts will have an ending code within three decimal points. This allows for sub-accounts to fall under the same general code.
For example, multiple cash accounts with different descriptions would appear as 1001.001, 1001.002, and 1001.003 respectively.

If an account has a posted journal entry to the general ledger, it will no longer be able to be deleted from the program. If the
Ledger.dat file is altered in any way to remove the account, the program may experience errors or fail to load functions.


IV - Default accounts
The following are all the accounts created by default at the program's initial setup:

